Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will get back to styling.
Our Web site to be more specific.
We will be styling the footer or in other words we will be adjusting this very bottom section of the
site to match what we see over in the design file.
So let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing we should do is to create a new get branch for the footer efforts.
We can create a new branch by typing get branch and then the name of the branch.
We would like to create let's name it simply footer and then we can switch to or check out that branch
by typing get check out footer.
All right and if you haven't already.
Make sure that NPM run dev is running in one of your command lines.
OK.
At this point we have a new get branch and our Web packed dev server is up and running.
Let's go ahead and begin styling this content so we can jump over to our text editor and let's open
up the H PML file we can scroll down to the very bottom to find the footer.
Here it is.
Let's begin by giving this footer element a class so that we can target it with our CSX let's name the
class site footer.
Let's save this file.
And next let's create a brand new CSX file dedicated to this class.
So within our app assets styles modules folder let's create a new file.
Let's name this file underscore.
Site dash footer dot CSX.
Let's create the class selector.
So dot site footer.
And before we forget let's save this file and then jump into our main styles dot CSX file and import
in this file.
So import modules underscore site footer save this.
And jump back into the site footer file.
All right.
So what's the first bit of CSX we should write.
Well if we compare the browser to the design file I think we should begin by giving it a blue background
and making the text white.
So back in our CSX let's say background color should use our variable named Main.
Blue let's set the color to white.
All right.
So that's a start.
Currently it looks like the margin from this paragraph element is protruding out the top and bottom
edges of the container div we can fix this by giving the containing site footer div a bit of vertical
padding.
So let's say padding.
Let's go with half a room vertically and we don't need any horizontal padding that looks better.
Why don't we wrap the content in a new div that has a class of wrapper so that the content won't sit
against the very far horizontal edges.
So over in our h t AML let's go ahead and cut this paragraph into our clipboard and then create a new
div that has a class of wrapper.
And then within this new wrapper div Let's paste back in that paragraph.
Perfect.
So now we see that this content aligns horizontally with the margin that we are using for the rest of
the site's content.
Next let's horizontally align this content to be centered so in our CSX text align center
all right.
Now eventually we will want to add a bit of horizontal spacing between this text and the orange button.
But first why don't we see how things look on a small screen.
So I think this looks a bit odd for small screens.
I think it would look better if after this text we dropped down to a new line for the button.
So over in our HMO let's wrap the copyright text in a span.
Closing this ban tag here and let's give this span a class of sight further underscore underscore text.
Let's save this.
And back in our site footer CSX.
Let's create a new rule for that text element.
We can say display block
that gives us a line break after the text.
Let's also add a bit of bottom margin on that text.
So there's a bit of space before the orange button so we can say margin bottom one Ram.
I think that looks a lot better for mobile.
However back on larger screens we do not want the button to drop down to a new line.
If we check the design file for large screens the button should sit side by side with the text.
So what we can do back in our site footer CSX is use a media query mixed in within this text rule so
we can say at Mixon at medium.
So once a screen is large enough to be considered medium let's set it back to an inline level element.
So display in line and we won't need any margin bottom any longer.
So we can zero that out margin bottom zero looks good.
And now why don't we add in a bit of horizontal spacing between the text and the orange button only
on larger screens.
So within that media query that we just set up we can also say margin right go with one point for RAM.
That looks good.
Now if we compare this with the design file the only big change that I see remaining is that this text
looks like it's using a lighter than default font weight right.
I feel like our text is a little too bold.
So within our CSX within this text rule let's simply say font weight 200.
I think that looks a lot better.
And at this point our footer is styled both for larger screens and smaller screens before we bring this
lesson to a close.
Let's take care of things from a get perspective.
So I'm going to jump back to the command line.
You can either press control C to tell web pack to stop running or you can open a new command line tab
or window.
Either way we want to go ahead and commit our changes to the footer branch.
So let's run a get status all of these changes look good to me.
Let's add it to the staging area.
So get add everything and then want to commit those changes so get commit.
Let's include a message completed styling the footer.
All right.
So now that we've committed those changes to the footer branch we can switch back to our master branch.
So get check out master.
If we look back in the browser we see that our footer styling is gone but all we need to do now is merge
in the footer branch so get merge footer.
All right.
So we are back on the master branch and our footer efforts have been merged in.
That's going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
We will begin styling the header of our Web site this very top section.
We will be working to make it match what we see in the design file which is this.
So we want to set up the transparent blue bar the company logo and the navigation.
It should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.